Now welcome to the exercise part of this section here.
Now that you know about SIFT and about BRISK in theory,
let's take a look at how they can be implemented.
Now let's take a look at how the BRISK detector and the descriptor work.
BRISK offers both the detector part as well as the descriptor part,
and in this example we're going to make use of both.
Now as the first step, we are going to load the image from file and then convert
it to grayscale as before with the last example, it's the same image.
Then in the first step, we're going to call the BRISK detector.
This data structure on the left side,
this data type here,
is a very convenient wrapper method offered by
the OpenCV which enables us to plug-in on the right side,
a whole bunch of different detectors.
You can use BRISK, you can use SIFT you can use Shi-Tomasi and many many others.
It's very convenient for us because we don't have to change
the detected variable type down below when we call the detector function.
So what this does here, it only prepares the data structure,
it does not execute the detector yet.
This here is the resulting output array which later after
computing the detectors or after executing the detection function,
will hold all the keypoints.
Then we have this line here which basically, again,
counts the milliseconds which it takes to execute the detector function.
It goes together with line 105,
here where we compute the difference between time before on time after,
and here in between we have the actual call to the detect function,
which takes as an input the grayscale image as well as
the results structure keypoints BRISK.
Now in this line 106,
we're going to output the number of
keypoints which the detector actually detected in the image,
and also how long in milliseconds it took the detector to complete the operation.
In the second part of this small example,
we see the descriptor part.
It is a very similar wrapper structure as before.
It's also very convenient to exchange this for
any other descriptors function which you might find in OpenCV,
be it SIFT, be it ORB or any other one,
and this is the output data structure.
What you have to look at very closely here with the detector,
we had a vector of keypoints,
with a descriptor, what we have is a matrix.
The matrix is a collection of
the different numbers it takes to describe the local vicinity of a keypoint,
and this is not stored in the vector,
this is stored in a matrix instead.
Now again, we have the timer issues which
counts the milliseconds for the descriptor to compute.
Here in line 111,
we execute the actual compute function,
which takes as input the grayscale image,
the keypoints which we found before and by
the way you can simply use any other keypoint detector.
You can use Harris, Shi-Tomasi, any other detector.
As long as it meets this format of being a vector of keypoints,
you do not necessarily have to use the BRISK keypoints here.
I am doing this because I want to focus solely on
the entire BRISK method here but you can play around a little bit,
and if you want,
plug-in some other detectors here.
This is the resulting data structure,
descriptors BRISK and once this line is complete,
we have a matrix filled with BRISK descriptors.
Here in this section, we simply visualize the results.
This is not the descriptors,
they will be visualized in the next lesson when we talk about descriptive matching.
For now, we only visualize the actual keypoints.
Let's take a look at how this looks.
As you can see here, we have a large number of keypoints,
a total of 2,896 executed in 38 milliseconds,
and the descriptor part took 21.446 milliseconds to compute.
So now as before, I would like you to add another method to code.
Please go ahead and implement the SIFT detector and compare
it to BRISK with regard to the number of features,
the scale of the features and especially, the runtime.
Note that in order to use SIFT,
you have to integrate a special header in the OpenCV,
which is called non-free.hpp.
This shows another drawback of SIFT because it is not
free to use in commercial applications.
Okay. So once you have finished,
please move on to the next section where we discuss ways to match
keypoints between images by comparing their descriptors.